Dedicated chapter about code generation configuration (#1850)
capire/docs: java/developing-applications/building.md

### Filter for CDS Entities

By default, the complete model of your application is generated including all imported or re-used models.
You can use options [`includes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#includes) and [`excludes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#excludes) to specify the part of your overall model that is subject to code generation. Both inclusion and exclusion can be used together, inclusion evaluated first, then exclusion filter out included set of entities.

These options use patterns that are applied on the fully qualified names of the entities in CDS models. For example, the pattern `my.bookshop.*` will cover all definitions with namespace `my.bookshop` and the pattern `my.bookshop.**` will cover all definitions with fully qualified name starting with `my.bookshop`.

:::warning Cross-namespace references are not resolved
Options `includes` and `excludes` are simple filters. If included parts of your model reference types from the excluded area, the resulting code will not compile.
:::

### Style of Interfaces

> By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification. In this style, getter and setter method names are prefixed with `get` and `set`, resp.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification. In this style, getter and setter method names are prefixed with `get` and `set`:
```

The way the interfaces are generated determines only how data is accessed by custom code. It does not affect how the data is represented in memory and handled by the CAP Java runtime.

Moreover, it doesn't change the way how event contexts, delivered by CAP, look like. Such interfaces from CAP are always modelled in the default JavaBeans style.

### Code Generation Features

Other options in this goal enable or disable certain features that change the way generated code looks in a certain aspect. These changes can be incompatible with the existing code and require manual adaptation.

- [`strictSetters`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#strictSetters)

  This switch changes the signature of the setter methods in typed access interfaces so that they require concrete type instead of generic `Map` interface.
  For example, instead of the following:

  ```java
  void setManager(Map<String, ?> manager);
  ```  
  you get the following:

  ```java
  void setManager(Manager manager);
  ```
  It does not introduce any additional type checks at runtime, the correctness of the assignment is checked only at the time of compilation.

> - [`interfacesForAspects`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#interfacesForAspects)

Author: Because not all cases that are broken are fixed with this switch. We have BLI to fix this for good.

  When this switch is enabled, characters `/` and `$` behave as a separators for the name during case conversions, similar to `_` and `.`. For example, `GET_MATERIAL` yields `GetMaterial` (or `getMaterial` for attributes and methods). The same now applies for the names with `/`, for example, name `/DMO/GET_MATERIAL` will be converted to `DmoGetMaterial`.
  
  The following conversions are applied:  
    - Names from CDS model that are Java keywords are suffixed with `_`.
    - Names from CDS model that use characters that are not valid as Java identifiers, are replaced by `_`. This, however, might lead to a conflicts between names that yield the same name in Java.
    - Leading `_` will remain in the name after conversions. This supports convention where association and its foreign key have names like `_assoc` and `assoc`.
  These conversions no longer influence the splitting.

- ['cqnServiceGetters'](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#cqnServiceGetters)

>   The method `getService()` in generated [event-specific Event Context interfaces](../event-handlers/#eventcontext) is overridden to return the typed service interface instead of generic `Service` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The method `getService()` in generated [event-specific Event Context interfaces](../event-handlers/#eventcontext) is overridden to return the typed service interface instead of the generic `Service` type.
```

[Learn more about configuration and `cds.env`](../../node.js/cds-env){.learn-more}

## Code Generation for Typed Access {#codegen-config}

The [interfaces for typed access](../cds-data#generated-accessor-interfaces) are generated at each build

> by the [goal `cds:generate`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html) of the [CDS Maven Plugin](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/plugin-info.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by the [`cds:generate`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html) goal of the [CDS Maven Plugin](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/plugin-info.html).
```

Each time your application is built, these interfaces are regenerated so you should exclude them from your version control system.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please move below the config of the generate goal. Maybe add a _.gitignore_-snippet.

Author: Where exactly? 

Exclusion is a part of archetype. I can inverse the statement and write that inclusion of them is a bad idea.

Author: Better?

You configure this goal just like any other Maven plugin via its configuration options via your application's POM. For example:

```xml [pom.xml]
<execution>
    <id>cds.generate</id>
    <goals>
        <goal>generate</goal>
    </goals>
    <configuration>
        <basePackage>cds.gen</basePackage>
        ...
    </configuration>
</execution>
```

### Package for Generated Code

> The option [`basePackage`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#basePackage) can be used to specify package as the root for generated code. The underlying package structure will reflect namespaces defined in your CDS model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The option [`basePackage`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#basePackage) can be used to specify a base package prefix for generated code. The suffix package structure will reflect namespaces defined in your CDS model.
```

### Filter for CDS Entities

> By default, complete model of your application is generated including all imported or re-used models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the complete model of your application is generated including all imported or re-used models.
```

> You can use options [`includes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#includes) and [`excludes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#excludes) to specify the part of your overall model that is subject to code generation. Both inclusion and exclusion can be used together, inclusion evaluated first, then exclusion filter out included set of entities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the options [`includes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#includes) and [`excludes`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#excludes) to specify the part of your overall model that is subject to code generation. Both inclusion and exclusion can be used together, inclusion is evaluated first, then exclusion filters from included set of entities.
```

These options use patterns that are applied on the fully qualified names of the entities in CDS models. For example, the pattern `my.bookshop.*` will cover all definitions with namespace `my.bookshop` and the pattern `my.bookshop.**` will cover all definitions with fully qualified name starting with `my.bookshop`.

:::warning Cross-namespace references are not resolved
Options `includes` and `excludes` are simple filters. If included parts of your model reference types from the excluded area, the resulting code will not compile.
:::

### Style of Interfaces

> By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification. In this style getter and setter method names are prefixed with `get` and `set`, resp.:
```

> Following example uses accessor interfaces that have been generated with the default (JavaBeans) style:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

```java
    Authors author = Authors.create();
    author.setName("Emily Brontë");

    Books book = Books.create();
    book.setAuthor(author);
    book.setTitle("Wuthering Heights");
```

> Alternatively, you can generate accessor interfaces in _fluent style_. In this mode, the getter methods are named after the property names. To enable fluent chaining, the setter methods return the accessor interface itself.
> 
> Following is an example of the fluent style:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can generate accessor interfaces in _fluent style_. In this mode, the getter methods are named after the property names. To enable fluent chaining, the setter methods return the accessor interface itself:

```

```java
   Authors author = Authors.create().name("Emily Brontë");
   Books.create().author(author).title("Wuthering Heights");
```

The generation mode is configured by the option [`methodStyle`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#methodStyle). The selected style affects all entities and event contexts in your services. The default value is `BEAN`, which represents JavaBeans-style interfaces.

> Once, when starting a project, decide on the style of the interfaces that is best for your team and project. We recommend the default JavaBeans style.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once, when starting a project, decide on the style of the interfaces that is best for your team and project.
```

> The way the interfaces are generated determines only how data is accessed by custom code. It does not affect how the data is represented in memory and handled by the CAP Java runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The way the interfaces are generated only determines how data is accessed by custom code. It does not affect how the data is represented in memory and handled by the CAP Java runtime.
```

Moreover, it doesn't change the way how event contexts, delivered by CAP, look like. Such interfaces from CAP are always modelled in the default JavaBeans style.

### Code Generation Features

> Other options in this goal enable or disable certain features that change the way generated code looks in a certain aspect. These changes can be incompatible with the existing code and require manual adaptation.

Reviewer 2: > These changes can be incompatible with the existing code and require manual adaptation.

This also applied to the `methodStyle`. The difference is that `methodStyle` is a question of taste. But `strictSetters` and `interfacesForAspects`, ... are recommended setting. We just don't change the default to avoid breaking existing code.

  When this switch is enabled, code generator will use type generated by the compiler instead of type of the aspect itself and will include methods to fetch keys, for example.

  :::warning Limitations
  This is supported only for the named aspects (inline targets are not supported) and does not respect all possible options how such entities might be exposed by services.
  :::

- [`betterNames`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#betterNames)

  CDS models from external sources might include elements that have some special characters in their names or include elements that clash with Java keywords. Such cases always can be solved with the [renaming features](/java/cds-data#renaming-elements-in-java) provided by code generator, but in case of large models, this is tedious.
  When this switch is enabled, characters `/` and `$` behave as a separators for the name during case conversions, similar to `_` and `.`. For example, `GET_MATERIAL` yields `GetMaterial` (or `getMaterial` for attributes and methods). The same now applies for the names with `/`, for example, name `/DMO/GET_MATERIAL` will be converted to `DmoGetMaterial`.
  

>   The following conversions applied after:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following conversions are applied:  
```

?

    - Names from CDS model that are Java keywords are suffixed with `_`.
    - Names from CDS model that use characters that are not valid as Java identifiers, are replaced by `_`. This, however, might lead to a conflicts between names that yield the same name in Java.
    - Leading `_` will remain in the name after conversions. This supports convention where association and its foreign key have names like `_assoc` and `assoc`.

>   These conversions no longer influence the splitting.

Reviewer 2: This is maybe too technical!

Author: @beckermarc ?

- ['cqnServiceGetters'](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#cqnServiceGetters)

  The method `getService()` in generated [event-specific Event Context interfaces](../event-handlers/#eventcontext) is overridden to return the typed service interface instead of generic `Service` type.

:::warning Check migration guides!
In major releases of CAP Java, some of these switches can be made new default and some other switches might be removed. This might introduce compile errors
in your application that needs to be fixed.
:::

See [Maven Plugin Documentation](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html) for actual status of deprecation and switches that are not described here. {.learn-more}

### Annotation Detail Level

> Option [`annotationDetailLevel`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#annotationDetailLevel) lets you choose the amount of the details for the Java annotation [`@Generated`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/21/docs/api/java.compiler/javax/annotation/processing/Generated.html) added to each interface. This annotation has no effect at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The option [`annotationDetailLevel`](/java/assets/cds-maven-plugin-site/generate-mojo.html#annotationDetailLevel) lets you choose the amount of the details for the Java annotation [`@Generated`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/21/docs/api/java.compiler/javax/annotation/processing/Generated.html) added to each interface. This annotation has no effect at runtime but is evaluated by static code analysis tools to identify the artifacts as generated.
```

Following levels of the details are available:

> - `MINIMAL` - only annotation is added, no additional information is added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `MINIMAL` (default) - only the annotation is added, no additional information is added.
```

   ```java
    @CdsName("service.Entity")
    @Generated("cds-maven-plugin")
    public interface Entity extends CdsData {  }
   ```

> - `FULL` - annotation contains date and time of the generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FULL` - annotation contains the timestamp of the generation.
```

  ```java
  @CdsName("service.Entity")
  @Generated(
      value = "cds-maven-plugin",
      date = "9999-12-31T23:59:59.999999Z",
      comments = ""
  )
  public interface Entity extends CdsData {  }
  ```

> - `NONE` - annotation is not added at all. This is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `NONE` - no `@Generated` annotation is added. This is not recommended.
```

### Style of Interfaces

> By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification. In this style getter and setter method names are prefixed with `get` and `set`, resp.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the accessor interfaces provide the setter and getter methods inspired by the JavaBeans specification. In this style, getter and setter method names are prefixed with `get` and `set`, resp.:
```
